feat(em): add custom partitioning (#3779)
scaleway/docs-content: bare-metal/elastic-metal/how-to/configure-disk-partitions.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to configure custom disk partitioning on Scaleway Elastic Metal servers
  description: Learn how to configure custom disk partitions on Scaleway Elastic Metal servers
content:
  h1: How to configure custom disk partitioning on Scaleway Elastic Metal servers
  paragraph: This guide explains how to configure custom disk partitions on Scaleway Elastic Metal servers.
tags: attach, detach, flexible-ip, elastic-metal
dates:
  validation: 2024-10-01
  posted: 2024-10-01
categories:
  - bare-metal
---

> Scaleway Bare Metal server come with a default partition layout, suited for most users to speed up and simplify the installation process of the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaleway Elastic Metal servers come with a default partition layout, suitable for most users and intended to speed up and simplify the installation process of the server.
```

> However, if you have specific requirements, you can define a custom partitioning of your machine using a JSON configuration during installation of the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if you have specific requirements, you can define custom partitioning of your machine using a JSON configuration during server installation.
```

<Message type="tip">
    You can change the partitioning of your server during installation or re-installation only.
    Be aware that all your data will be deleted if you reinstall your server.
</Message>

<Macro id="requirements" />
- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- An [SSH key](/identity-and-access-management/organizations-and-projects/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
- An [Elastic Metal server](/bare-metal/elastic-metal/quickstart/#how-to-create-an-elastic-metal-server)

## Example configuration

During [server installation](/bare-metal/elastic-metal/) click **Advanced JSON** configuration in step 5 of the server creation wizard.

> You can then edit the partiton configuration directly in the editor within your browser. The configuration is done using a JSON description of the partitioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then edit the partition configuration directly in the editor within your browser. The configuration is done via a JSON description of the partitioning.
```
